# i3wm Configuration Notes
## i3 window manager
Configurations (or Rice) for i3 Window Manager, in particular, i3-gaps in use.
It is better to learn from others' ricing. 

The [i3 User Guide](i3wm.org/docs/userguide.html) documents in detail how to configu the i3wm itself. Say the `$mod` key and other useful keybindings. Thus, this note will not focus on it too much. 


## i3bar
i3bar is biscally the status bar shown when i3 starts up at either the bottom (by default) or the top of the screen. It is a menu-stripped version of the Windows menu bar or any menu bars commonly seen with other DEs. By 'menu-stripped', I mean the bar acts as a mere tool for showing various kinds of status such as that of battery, of disk, of cup, etc. 

i3wm's default i3bar is simple and ugly compared with other more popular status bars: [Polybar](https://github.com/polybar/polybar), for example. Yet it is not a bad idea to learn about it anyway. The i3status conf in particular is worth of some attention.

### config file locations
I came to know that `/etc/i3status/conf` is at the bottom of [the config-file-path list](https://i3wm.org/i3status/manpage.html#_options). The first is `~/.config/i3status/config` (or `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/i3status/config`). If it is not there, create one. 

### config
The [Configuration Section] of i3status man page offers almost all the details about ricing the bar. One issue I met was like this one: `separator = ...` and `color_separator = ...` not working. The answer is indeed right in the doc, but [this thread](https://faq.i3wm.org/question/5037/color_separator-customization-not-taking/index.html) just brings it to my attention. 
